# STA-215-Final-Project
My replication package for STA 215 Final Project. I looked into different television shows and their corresponding episodes and analyzed the lengths (in minutes) of each episode, the date they were released, tone of the episode, how many writers per episode, etc. I sought out discover if there is a relation or connection between television episodes of different shows.

## **Instructions**
To access and utilize the script, open the "STA215-HERRADA.R" file, which contains the code for my project. 

## **Data**
The data collected for this project was episodes from four different television shows (Suits. Only Murders in the Building, Breaking Bad, and Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba. I used 4 unique variables throughout my paper (Tone, Writers, Cast, Funny). The variable tone was used to describe the general feeling of the episode. I analyzed and documented the number of writers per episode of each show. For cast, I recorded the number of cast memebers for each episode. For the varible funny, I measured to see if the characters in each episode laughed or not to determine if the episode was funny or not. 

## **Operationalization**
For this analysis, I decided to use data based on 4 different television shows (Suits, Breaking Bad, Demon Slayer, and Only Murders in the Building). This data was collected over 2 weeks and was categorized into a google sheet. At least 30 episodes of television were watched per show, and if the 30th episode was in the middle of a television season, that entire season would be finished. This was to prevent biased sampling towards specific variables. The sampling strategy that was used was purposive sampling, gathering a specific unit based on certain criteria relevant to the research study. This sampling strategy was believed to collect the most insightful and relevant data for this study. While this can lead to generalizations of the show based on the earlier episodes (if earlier episodes differ greatly than later ones), it could also be harder to generalize this data for the entire show because of a selected sample. 
	Each television show was watched by a different member of my group. It was watched on a streaming platform that had the show streaming. 16 total different variables were collected for each show for each episode (30+ episodes per show). The variables selected for each episodes analysis were episode name, season number, length (in minutes), rating, date, tone, the number of recurring characters, how many writers credited, number of cast members (main characters), if a character screamed or not, if an episode was gory or not, how important the episode was to the plot, number of background characters, if the episode was action packed, if it was funny, and if a character cried during the episode. There were a total of 9 qualitative variables and 7 qualitative variables that were categorized. The following variables were collected from IMDB.com, episode name, season number, length, rating, release date, and number of writers. All of the rest of the variables were acquired by watching each episode fully though. 
The 4 specific variables that I analyzed were the number of people casted and the number of writers per episode, the tone of the episode, and if the episode was funny or not. 
As stated previously, both variables writers and cast were found on IMDB.com by searching through every episode of all 4 shows to see how many writers and cast members were listed. It was found that the mean number of writers per episode was 3.04. This number states that the average number of writers per episode was 3 (rounded to the nearest whole number since you cannot have .04 of a person). The standard deviation from this number is 2.41, there was an average deviation of 2 writers per episode. The minimum number of writers credited for an episode was 1 while the maximum number of writers credited was 10. This states that there was as little as 1 writer or as many as 10 writers credited for an episode. 
For the variable cast (how many cast members were credited on IMDB.com for each episode), the average number of people casted was 13.62. As the previous paragraph stated how you cannot have a percentage of a person, the average number of people rounded to the nearest whole number was 14. The standard deviation to this was 7.67. An average of 8 casted individuals would deviate between episodes. The minimum number of 2 people were casted in an episode while a maximum of 46 were in an episode. 
To operationalize the tone of an episode, 9 options of differing tones were available to categorize an episode. These tones were picked and approved by every group member to represent a broad spectrum of tones an episode might be. Each episode watched had to be categorized into 1 of these 9 specified tones. An episode's tone was subjectively categorized by the person watching each episode. 
The variable funny was again decided by the person watching the episode. It was determined that either an episode was funny or that it was not funny. These two options turned the variable funny into a binary variable, a type of categorical variable that only has two outcomes. 
Both the variable tone and funny were measured subjectively. If this study was repeated by another person, the numbers associated with these variables could change. This is an example of personal bias since there is no concrete answer to the tone of an episode or if an episode was funny or not since these statements are measured subjectively. 
